- There's a concept in Spring of Bean Scopes
that is very important to understand.
Well they aren't used that often in normal practice,
it is important to be exposed to them,
so that you can use them
whenever you may need to.
The most common bean scope is the Singleton Scope.
The singleton is the default scope of all beans
defined for the application context.
If you did not specify a specific scope,
you get a singleton,
you get one instance of the object per context definition.
Now you can declare two beans
of the same type in a context,
but you have to do some work to get them injected properly
and most often,
this becomes very cumbersome and isn't recommended.
One thing to be aware of as we previously mentioned,
is that you need to be careful with state
because you have one instance of the class
all state essentially becomes available
to all instances of the object
so even though there's only one instance,
every class that has it as a dependency
could potentially have access to that state.
Now I have run into some issues
with this very thing more than once,
especially early in my spring career.
Keep in mind how state impacts behavior of methods,
as some other thread may change your data,
or you may change it for some other thread.
Now the Prototype scope
is the next one that we will discuss.
A prototype bean is one that you get a new instance,
every time it's referenced.
This means that once the instance
is no longer needed or referenced,
it becomes available for garbage collection.
A definition of the prototype
is stored in the IoC container.
When instance is needed
it is created based on the definition
Spring then hands that instance over
and releases its own handle.
A prototype bean is never stored
as an instantiated object in the IoC container.
These bean types are very useful for transient data,
or interface types that can flex based on application state,
which is how I've used them almost exclusively.
Now Session beans are very similar to prototype beans,
they only apply however in web environments
as you might guess by the name,
you get one instance of the bean
per user session
this allows you to keep session data separate
from other sessions when needed
and like a prototype bean
the definition is stored in the IoC container,
but the instance itself is never stored,
and when the session goes out of scope,
that bean is available for garbage collection.
The final scope that we're going to talk about
is Request Scope Beans,
which are very similar to session
and prototype scoped beans.
Once again these only apply to web environments
and you might again guess that from the name,
you get one instance of the bean
per request into the application,
so instead of session which is multiple requests
and responses,
this is one per request
and the definition is once again stored
in the IoC container,
but the instance is not
and once that request is done,
that class is available for garbage collection.